Algorithms and Data Structures
Laboratory number 00
--------------------



Exercise 01
-----------

A first file stores a text with an undefined number of rows.
Each row is shorter than 100 characters.
A second file stores a list of words.
Each word is shorter than 20 characters, and the number
of words is at most equal to 100.

Write a program that counts the number of times each word stored in the
second file appears in the text stored in the first file.

Once the file has been read, the program has to print out (on the standard
output) each word with its absolute frequency, i.e., the number of
times it appears in the text.

Both files have to be read just once.
Capital and small letters have to be considered as equivalent, e.g.,
"word" and "WORD" and "WoRd" are considered as equivalent.

Example
-------

Let the first file be the following one:

Watch your thoughts ; they become words .
Watch your words ; they become actions .
Watch your actions ; they become habits .
Watch your habits ; they become character .
Watch your character ; it becomes your destiny .
Lao-Tze

and the second file the following one:

watch
words
become

The program has to print-out:

watch - 5 occurrence(s)
words - 2 occurrence(s)
become - 4 occurrence(s)

Observation
-----------

The number of words in the second file is unknown.
Which are the options that we have to define the data structure storing them?
Notice that several more options are going to be introduced during the course.



Exercise 02
-----------

A file defines a set of rectangles with the following format:
* Each row of the file contains 1 string and 2 real numbers:
  - The string (of 4 characters) is the rectangle identifier,
  - The two numbers specify the x and y coordinates,
    respectively, of one of its vertices
* For each rectangle, there are two lines in the file specifying
  the coordinate of two opposite vertices (top-right and
  bottom-left or top-left and bottom-right).
  Notice that, in general, the two rows defining a rectangle are
  not consecutive, and that it is not known which vertex they
  specify.
In any case, suppose the maximum number of rectangles is 100.

Write a C program that receives three file names on the command line:
- The first file is an input file, and it contains all rectangles
  specifications as previously indicated
- The second file is an output file, and it must contain the
  name of the rectangles ordered by ascending area values.
- The third file is an output file, and it must contain the
  name of the rectangles ordered by ascending perimeter values.

Suggestion
----------

Use an array of structures where each element on the array stores
the name and the two extreme coordinates.

Example
-------

Let us suppose that the program receives the following three parameters:
fileIn.txt fileArea.txt filePerimeter.txt

Moreover, let us suppose that the content of fileIn.txt is the following:

rct2  1.5 3.5
xxyy  -0.5 3.0
xxyy  1.5 2.0
abcd  1.0 4.5
ktkr  -2.5 1.5
abcd  2.0 2.0
rct2  3.5 -2.0
trya  2.5 -1.0
ktkr  1.5 3.5
trya  4.0 4.0

As areas and perimeters of the rectangles are:
rct2   area=11.00   perimeter=15.00
xxyy   area= 2.00   perimeter= 6.00
abcd   area= 2.50   perimeter= 7.00
ktkr   area= 8.00   perimeter=12.00
trya   area= 7.50   perimeter=13.00
the program has to generate the following two files:

fileArea.txt:
rct2
ktkr
trya
abcd
xxyy

filePerimeter.txt:
rct2
trya
ktkr
abcd
xxyy

Observation
-----------

The number of rectangles is undefined.
Which are the options that we have to define the data structure storing them?
Notice that several more options are going to be introduced during the course.
